Participants:

SBGN Spec release
-----------------

- when release, circulate with community

- HM: PD spec in good condition

- SM: still needs to do some stuff with PD (submap, rules)

- AF - all major issues addressed, send out as soon as possible

- TC: lots of comments to ER, will send it to all end of the week

- we should make the description of different specs more similar (esp. ER more similar to PD and AF)

- would it make sense to use ontology and OWL instead of UML for describing PD (and other languages)? There may be problems with it, so needs to be discussed better.

-SM: compartment reference with submaps (same namespace, but what happens if compartment is only in submit)

- Discussion about submaps and compartments (equivalence arc to submap), does equivalence arc "breaks" anything?

- Action points: send out AF; finish PD; send out PD; finish ER; send out ER

- Action point: Check specs regarding compartments, submits and equiv. arcs

New editor election
-------------------

- ask for nominations (two new editors)

- start vote end Nov/beg Dec

- election to be closed by Dec 15th

- Action point: FS takes care of process

SBOL support
------------

- Action point: HM will contact SBOL contact to get examples for symbols which could be represented in AF

- Action point: we have to see how SBOL can be implemented in SBGN

HARMONY and COMBINE 2015
------------------------

- TC: HARMONY 2015, web page there

- HARMONY: TC, FS there, SM likely, AS and HM more likely not able to go

- COMBINE: not clear who can attend, depends on funding

SBGN competition
----------------

- We could announce it end of Dec with new editors

- SBGN competition

-   Undergraduate map
-   Best map in paper
-   Best resource for SBGN (database, website, tutorial etc)
-   Apply or suggest
