Present:

-   Tobias Czauderna (TC)
-   Stuart Moodie (SM)
-   Anatoly Sorokin (AS)
-   Falk Schreiber (FS)

SBGN related workshop
---------------------

SM: Funding for a workshop in Edingburgh

Discussion about the best time (around 15/04, beginning of May?)

How long should the meeting be? - 3 days, maybe 4 days (lunch to lunch)

Aim of the meeting:

-   Kick-start SBGN
-   Content of next level of SBGN (Level 2)

Decision:

-   SM will do survey with blocks of possible days

One day online / skype meeting
------------------------------

Decision:

-   Similar to last one
-   Including all privious editors
-   TC will do survey of possible days
-   February / March

Other topics (from Alice via mail)
----------------------------------

-   Symbol of the Month... Anyone wants to take responsibility for this?

--&gt; FS will discus with NLN

-   I need to contact Nicolas Rodriguez if we want to change the look of the wiki (e.g. switch from a dark background to a lighter one)

<!-- -->

-   Tobias migrated the SBGNML site onto the wiki, but the pages are not prefixed (like a new category) with SBGNML/, so they can't be told apart from the other SBGN pages. Maybe try and fix this?

--&gt; TC will discus it directly with AV

-   Work on the PD specs: who, when, where, how, ...? (maybe cf below...?)

<!-- -->

-   Meeting in Edinburgh mentioned by Anatoly a while ago?

How to increase user base
-------------------------

SM: Survey how SBGN is used

-   More people than on sbgn-discuss

FS: Tutorials at conferences

AS: Put it in email, on facebook etc

FS: (Part of) summer schools