Present:

-   Huaiyu Mi (HM)
-   Augustin Luna (AL)
-   Tobias Czauderna (TC)

Topics
------

-   SBOL - SBGN-AF
-   AF spec release
-   HARMONY 2015
-   ER spec release
-   Funding

SBOL - SBGN-AF
--------------

-   AL: Did anyone talk to any SBOL developer (programmer)?
-   HM, TC: No.
-   HM: I had at a look at SBOL visual. It seems that the symbols on the web page (\[www.sbolstandard.org/visual www.sbolstandard.org/visual\]) are different from the symbols used in examples.
-   Discussion about examples from SBOL.
-   HM: I will send a mail and ask SBOL people about semantics of examples.
-   Some open questions remain.
-   HM will start a section/page on the SBGN wiki.
-   AL: There might be some confusion between inhibition and terminal.

AF spec release
---------------

-   HM: I have created a tag on Sourceforge for L1V1.2.
-   TC: Small fix in 2.8.6 necessary.
-   HM: I will do it.
-   AL: Is there any spell check and grammar check available for LaTex?
-   HM, TC: There is spell check available.

HARMONY 2015
------------

-   AL: I will go to HARMONY.

ER spec release
---------------

-   AL: I'm in contact with Anatoly.

Funding
-------

-   HM: SBGN grant not funded.
-   HM, AL: Change proposal towards a collaboration with SBOL especially regarding support for stereotypes.

Misc
----

-   Next meeting: Either March 11 (Tobias will be in Europa) or the week March 16-20.
